now let's think why are we not all
turned on by the same person
it's because we all had different
backgrounds it's because
if you're a heterosexual male we had
very different
mothers so what is this claim based on
what possible evidence could support it
or disprove it in other words is it
acceptable for orlando bottom to just
make this kind of thing up
off the top of his head and for the
audience to accept it as if it's some
kind of proven
scientific fact no this
is falsifiable and it is demonstrably
false brothers raised by the same mother
can and do find different women
attractive even twin brothers
so you can test this scientifically if
the type of woman you're attracted to
were determined by who your mother was
there's a pretty simple experiment you
could undertake
hey guess what i come from a big family
lots you in the audience will too
it's it's not that hard to test this
hypothesis within your own family or
your friends and neighbors family any
family that has a couple of different
brothers
raised by the same mother you would be
able to challenge
and then discard this thesis a little
bit trickier
for people to be honest themselves about
is that the very same man
can find different women attractive at
different times of his life right and he
still has the same mother it's the same
person
you can have a phase of your life when
you're younger when you're into one
thing you can have a phase in your life
that only lasts
a few months where you're attracted to a
certain type of person
and that might be a little bit more
difficult for us to be honest with
ourselves about but again even if you
just have a few friends over a few
decades
you should be able to recognize this and
of course scientifically
this could be pinned down this could be
measured this could be falsified right
finally if you scale it up isn't it a
demonstrable fact
that what people find attractive goes
through fads
decade by decade i mean the images on
screen are different
beauty icons from different decades as
time goes by
is your thesis that everybody had a
different mother
when one body type was in vogue rather
than another i mean whether it's one
hairstyle or
you know how skinny or how curvy the
women are featured in
cinema even in pornography these things
go
through fads and fashion so come on
and finally does he care
that this claim is totally irrelevant to
his thesis
made in the video as a whole
it's sexy precisely because it's private
because it's a miniature utopia
that you're creating part-time
philosopher full-time youtuber alain de
bottom promises us something
serious profound philosophical about the
problems of human sexuality
and he utterly fails to deliver what he
does do
in this video is give you a series of
profoundly
incoherent generalizations each of which
is totally incompatible with the others
each of which doesn't
in any way support the hypothesis
presented by the others in just a moment
we're going to get to the mean
hypothesis he advances in the first
episode but
what a notion what a notion we've just
been presented with that when we're
attracted to somebody when we're
attracted to one person
rather than another it has to do with
privacy it has to do with the yearning
to create a utopia it's sexy precisely
because
it's private because it's a miniature
utopia that you're
creating well that that could be a
thesis but then within just a few
moments he
offers a totally bizarre and incoherent
um
philosophical appraisal of bdsm and the
use of sexual violence
within loving relationships people will
hit each other scratch each other's
backs
call each other names pull each other's
hair what's going on there
trust weirdly it's trust it takes a lot
of trust within a loving relationship
to allow one person to hit another
violence
sexual games all of these things they're
not signs of depravity they're precisely
signs
of our more aggressive impulses being
accepted
within a social arena do you think
he came to this conclusion on the basis
of
any kind of scientific evidence do you
think he came to this conclusion
after even interviewing just 10
experienced bdsm dominatrixes
about what their clients are after what
they enjoy what motivates them
do you think he had any open-mindedness
to the possibility that his thesis his
philosophy
was wrong that it was falsifiable that
even to use the most disparaging terms
that he's introduced here
even to use the word depraved this is a
sort of
depravity are you gonna claim that for
zero percent of people who are into bdsm
this really is about violence this
really is about denigrating or
humiliating someone else or
being denigrated or humiliated oneself
are you going to claim
that in 100 of cases
the people who dedicate their time and
money
to this kink are acting out
your fantasy and not their own
what a philosophy ellen de bolton in
this way
i feel that not just this one video on
sexuality but
all of his videos including those about
politics
really are a kind of strange game of him
taking his own dreams and presenting
them as something
self-evidently and scientistically
real what i want to talk to you about
tonight is how to have
a better sex life i want to hold him to
this promise
he opens the video this is the beginning
of the video we've gone back to now
by suggesting to you that he's going to
tell you how to solve your problems
he's going to talk about how to improve
your sex life by thinking about sex
in the right way and even though we
think that we think a lot about sex we
perhaps don't think about it enough
or not in the right ways um i want to
start
by asking uh what makes something
sexy as it well before we're looking at
the problems that sex gives us let's
consider what makes something sexy
why are certain moments situations
positions
especially sexy i think it has to do
with loneliness
i know what you're thinking it can't
possibly be
that he's suggesting the reason why you
find one person attractive
and not another is loneliness it can't
possibly be as he
he didn't justify this to people but
even situations it can't possibly be
that the reason why some people think
it's very sexy
to make love in the backseat of a car
whereas other people would prefer a
bedroom or other people would prefer to
be outdoors in the middle of a forest or
middle of a desert or something
it can't possibly be that the difference
subjectively as to why some people find
one thing sexy and not another
is explained by loneliness it can't
possibly be that the major thesis of
this video
that he's advancing again with the
promise that he's going to help you
solve your sexual problems is this
stupid
well hear this short clip from later in
the video it is it is
precisely that stupid now let's think
why are we not all turned on
by the same person i want to ask why
some people turn us on that is the
problem
he is pretending to address that is the
problem that he's promising
if solved will help you think about your
own sex life better
and solve your problems in your marriage
or in your single life
in the ensuing lecture this claim is
never proven
it is never substantiated in any way and
just ask yourself
how could this not be a stupid
or pointless thesis if you do that thing
that 90 of the population does on a
daily basis
and take out your cell phone and scroll
through
images of beautiful people some people
do it on instagram
some people do it here on youtube
doesn't matter
if you do that for a minute do you feel
that the explanation for why you find
some of those images sexy and not others
some of those people sexy
and others do you think that the
explanation
possibly could be loneliness a very
different example
if you turned on your radio and you
changed the dial between different radio
stations
where all you hear is a human voice
and then sooner or later you hear one
voice and you think that's sexy
that person's voice is sexy not the
other voice
on the other radio station do you think
you can explain
that difference in your own subjective
judgment
through a land of botons philosophy of
loneliness
it's not just that this is false it's
unfalsifiable
it's impossible to prove it's so
incoherent we can't even
reason through it to come to a
conclusion as to how it possibly
could be true sex symbolically
cleanses us another person accepts us
the whole of us and that is a
miraculously exciting thing
it's exciting we call it it's a turn-on
it's sexy but it's deeper than that
it's psychologically enriching it makes
us feel
fully human what he's doing here is
stating
a completely irrelevant fantasy
he has about human nature as if it were
a demonstrable scientific fact and he
just fundamentally doesn't seem to care
that each one of these philosophical
expostulations
fails to support prove or demonstrate
any of the others and
none of them connect in any meaningful
way to his original thesis i want to ask
why some people turn us on
he already answered that question
remember the video
opens with him claiming that the answer
to this question is
loneliness what is a sexy person now
evolutionary biologists have got an
answer to this question
they tell us that a sexy person is a
healthy
person the problem with an evolutionary
biological analysis of life is not that
it's wrong
it's right sure it's right problem is
it's very boring it's
very boring okay so what if this is the
case
that doesn't really explain the richness
of why
certain people turn us on does he or
does he not care
that this is irrelevant to his thesis
now
i actually share his apprehension here
that what evolutionary biology tells us
is of incredibly limited value
if you take this phrase and just state
it negatively
all you're really claiming is that you
would not
find someone attractive if they were
unhealthy
right that's really all it means to say
that you're attracted
to a healthy person but as you know you
can scroll
through hundreds or thousands of images
of attractive people
on a dating app on your cell phone in a
magazine
in a movie theater doesn't make any
difference and the question of why you
would find
one healthy person attractive rather
than another again one voice
on the radio attractive with another
that is not answered in any meaningful
sense
just by establishing this limit that you
wouldn't find someone attractive
if they were unhealthy i'd make an even
further claim
that this has zero explanatory value
for human sexuality think in your mind's
eye
about somebody you fell in love with at
some point your life could be a love
you've lost could be the person you're
married to now
doesn't matter do you believe the claim
that if you had met them when they were
receiving treatment for cancer
you wouldn't have fallen in love with
them at all you wouldn't have found them
sexy at all it's actually routine people
do fall in love when they're receiving
treatment for cancer they do while
they're undergoing
chemotherapy people who have terrible
diseases fall in love with other people
with terrible diseases in the hospital
all the time now maybe that's a little
bit strange maybe it's a little bit
perverse maybe it's a little bit
perplexing
maybe it flies in the face of this
seemingly reasonable assumption
that you would prefer or exclusively be
attracted
to healthy people i've met people with
terrible
chronic diseases co-workers know people
have some kind of
you know meaningful interaction with it
and i really feel attracted to them
and you know what i i'd like to think
it's despite the fact that they're sick
but maybe in a really profound sense
sickness and health
is actually irrelevant to the question
of whether or not you're attracted
someone or beyond that
whether or not you fall in love with
them whether or not there's someone you
want to have children with
the fundamental problem with what ellen
de bolton
says about health here a concept as
simple as health is the same as the
problem we encountered before with what
he says about
bdsm within loving relationships people
will hit each other
scratch each other's backs call each
other names pull each other's hair
what's going on there it's not based on
any kind of empirical experience
it's not even based on interviewing five
or ten dominatrixes
being willing to listen to empirical
evidence of some kind
because what you'll find is that the
empirical evidence in this
province of human research is internally
self-contradictory
mystifying and baffling people do not
become
fascinated with and gratified by
sexual violence for one simple reason
that justifies your ideology or
philosophy
you're going to find it's for all kinds
of bizarre
internally self-contradictory and
perverse reasons
it's going to frustrate whatever your
agenda is whatever the ideology is
you're trying to justify with reference
to bdsm
skinny people do not fall in love with
get married to and have children with
fat people for one simple reason
that justifies your ideology not even if
your ideology is this kind of
evolutionary determinism some people
idealize and are especially attracted to
fat people
some people would prefer to be with a
slender partner but they happen to fall
in love with this fat person but
human nature in this province is not
something you can
in this way make abstract a priori
prescriptive statements about to then
pin to and justify
your personal fantasies and when we say
this woman is a turn-on
we're turned on not just by signs of her
health but by a whole
person we live in a culture where we're
often very suspicious of the body
of the surface we hear that phrase she
only liked me for my body
he only liked me for the outside of me
and that's taken as an insult i want to
argue that
a lot of us is present in the physical
envelope and when we say this woman is a
turn-on
we're turned on not just by signs of her
health but by a whole
person don't dismiss the notion of
sexiness
as merely a superficial category it's a
very deep one
part of me just feels like saying really
bro
really when people on the internet feel
attracted to
angie verona it's not her body
it's the whole person really when
tens of thousands of people watch her
singing
and masturbate to the view of her
singing in revealing
clothing that's just because of the
quality of her voice
or her emotional interpretation of the
song or or the whole person in this
profound i
in a sense this part of his hypothesis
angers me more than most
because when i was a much younger much
more naive man
in a sense i wanted to believe this
[Music]
i lived a very bookish very intellectual
existence for many years of my life
and it's not that i assumed everyone
else on earth would live that way i
would share my values
but i assumed that the tiny minority of
women who found me attractive
would be attracted to me for those
intellectual reasons
because they valued that about me and
with
one experience after another i had to
come to the crushing realization
that very close to zero women who found
me attractive had
any interest in my intellect whatsoever
that in fact for most of them
you know my involvement with things
intellectual history politics the study
of languages
it was like an unwanted encumbrance
and primarily or entirely
they were interested in me because of
physical
sexual attraction that was something
that startled me
and astonished me and disappointed me
again and again and again and i didn't
find it flattering
and i still don't and i had the
experience again and again of talking to
women
even this month talking to women where
they're they're talking to me and it's
like
look this is who i am whether i'm
sending them a link to an article i've
written or a youtube video recorded
this is the research i'm doing these are
my goals and aspirations in life
this is what my life is all about so
what is it you you want to get involved
with here like why are you talking
why are you trying to sleep with me and
yes some of those conversations happen
face to face and some of them are by
email
or what have you and yes there's part of
me still
that's jejune or that wants to be jejune
in that when women approach me i want to
imagine that it's
because of those other characteristics
that it's because of
the whole person in some profound sense
and no you have to grow up you have to
accept
that most people most of the time
are responding to one another the same
way those millions of men
are responding to angie verona the fact
that those men
are watching the video of her singing
despite
her singing voice not because of it
despite the music
not because of it that they enjoy
photographs of her
and video clips of her despite her
personality and not because of it
the vast majority of beauty icons
whether they be actresses singers or
what have you
their personality their intellect it's
only an encumbrance it's something
unpleasant and a turn off to be ignored
because most these people are idiots who
have absolutely no sick level of
sophistication or so-called division
we're talking about
i think it is useful not just to talk
about human nature in general but to
talk about
one's own nature because that's the
little piece of human nature we know
best
no matter how incongruously it may
contrast
to human nature in general as it
surrounds us i have a video on this
channel
i think it's one of the best videos i
ever recorded that's actually about
open relationships how to yeah
nissian's name is in the title but it's
not really about an scn and this is just
a negative example
contrasted to what i'm saying there
about human sexuality and when i watched
that video back
i'm aware i'm partly talking to people
as they are
and i'm partly talking to people as they
should be one of the things i say in
that video again and again is
you can't possibly be this shallow you
can't
possibly fall in love with someone have
a relationship with someone or get
married to someone
just because they have a pretty face or
just because of their body
you can't possibly cheat on your wife
with someone
because the person you're cheating with
just has a pretty face or just hasn't
attracted everybody
i'm i'm warning in a sense the audience
to say
don't be that shallow this is only going
to lead to your own heartbreak your own
downfall
like a nissi and you're going to ruin
your life if you live this way
as opposed to recognizing the whole
person that we're funny as opposed to
living
in the way that ellen de bottle is
claiming
implicitly we all do live but of course
the tragedy implicit in that video in
explicit in this one
is that yes people really can be that
shallow
and even people who have a choice can
choose
to be that shallow they may prefer it
there may be something
liberating in just relating to another
human being
as one monkey to another monkey with the
same
mindless physicality that is so taboo
in our culture that to indulge in that
unencumbers us
with the layers of sophistication we're
supposed to have
acquired through education civilization
religion or what have you that on some
level some people might want to just
shed all of that
and appreciate a beautiful person for
just being beautiful that they might
want to forget about their own
shallowness and forget about the other
person showing us
and have the only kind of intimate
relationship they're capable of
so yes yes talking about my own human
nature
and i think probably this is true of a
great many people in my audience the
kind of person watching my videos
i can say dogmatically don't live this
way
don't live this unexamined life don't be
this shallow you can't possibly be the
show you can't be shallow enough
for this kind of relationship to work
for you and i know at the same time the
tragedy of human nature is
that not only can people be that shallow
they may actively prefer it it's because
if you're a heterosexual male we had
very different
mothers and according to who our mothers
were
we might get a stronger or weaker
impulse to
to take one of these uh ladies out on a
date
[Music]
so yes i'm just including this clip
to make clear his claim really
is that stupid that the difference
between finding
one famous movie actress attractive and
another
is who your mother was
so many of you could imagine a
scientific test to determine this right
now you could have different brothers
born and raised in the same family
and have them scroll through a bunch of
pictures of famous movie actresses
and choose between them and it could not
possibly be that their preference is
explained
by who their mother was what the hell
is this claim based on what possible
evidence
could support it or disprove it and does
he or does he not care
that this is totally irrelevant to his
thesis why do some of us have too little
sex
part of the problem is that the person
we have sex with generally is someone
we're trying to do an awful lot of other
things with
it's so stupid i'm sorry okay
okay uh this person is going to be this
person called my wife or husband
and i'm going to do everything with them
i'm going to put out the bin bags with
them
i'm going to raise the children with
them i'm going to have sex with them
i'm going to do the accounts with them
and i'm going to plan the interior
decoration of our home
problem is that sex gets very squashed
among all these different priorities
this is the part of the video where he
finally shifts into the mode of giving
you advice that could help you
in your marriage or long-term
relationship something that was promised
at the beginning
and we haven't really seen much evidence
for
and again part of the problem is
evidence so if your wife
gained 150 pounds since you got married
are you going to tell me that the
problem with the relationship
the problem why you don't find them
attractive anymore
is that you do too many things together
that you do your taxes together you
don't do things separately oh yes
he thinks this profound insight of his
has
prescriptive value just listen uh this
is the park hyatt in tokyo it's gonna
cost you
about 400 a night a hotel separates out
the functions
and reminds you yet again of who that
person was before
they became so confused with other
things he's never
willing to consider the possibility that
his hypothesis
his fantasy could be wrong for some
people
could be wrong for the majority of
people or could actually be
180 degrees wrong it could be completely
utterly wrong all the time for everyone
if you don't feel attracted to your wife
what percentage of people if they
instead go and stay in a
hotel for a few days what percentage of
people say wow that solved the problem
in the relationship
now suddenly they do feel attracted and
you say what what percentage
do you think the people who are
struggling with obesity
would find that that's the solution to
problems do you think the people
struggling with
alcoholism or drug addiction or the
prolex problems that plague you know
relationships around the world
what about people for whom trust has
broken down how about it's gambling you
feel betrayed because your husband or
wife took all the money and
lost it gambling what if it's just
betrayal generally you feel
this is someone you now despise whereas
before you trusted them and loved them
now you feel like enemies you have anger
you have conflict between you
there are so many conceivable reasons
why sex within a relationship would be
awful
and could not possibly be improved
by staying in a hotel these claims he's
making
are falsifiable if you just think them
through in fact they're unbelievably
implausible
and again even if we were convinced by
his argument without any evidence
each and every one of these arguments
fails to support
his original hypothesis it's not to
think about too much sex they've been
aware of the power of sex
and they've got us to try and do various
things not to think too much about sex
and when we think about these people we
think oh my goodness how repressed they
were
dressing the head to toe in gear you
know getting too turned on by the sight
of an
ankle this seems ridiculous we think in
the modern world that we are liberated
right and that we don't need to worry
too much about
the physical and about the erotic and
about sex because it doesn't really
matter what you're looking at
you can be thinking about you know
microbiology or the fate of human beings
you're not going to be distracted by
certain visual images
these things are not going to put you
off they're not going to you're not
going to change your priorities just
because there's somebody sunbathing
semi-naked next to you
grow up now my thing my analysis is yes
we will
very many of us very sensible people get
very very very affected by these sort of
things
now i'm not necessarily recommending
this but i'm thinking let's think about
the power of sex sometimes to draw us
away
from things that are very important
let's not let sex
be used as a distraction from very
necessary
internal processes let's sometimes admit
that a certain amount of censorship and
repression
is not just for the victorians it's not
just for the religious it's for
all of us if we're trying to have a good
life part of that good life
will involve some censorship some
repression
so that was the final argument
presented in the video that was the
longest clip i've used
the only reason i used it was so that
you wouldn't feel i was only letting the
guy get
half a sentence out at a time that is
the final point he makes in the video he
then just has some kind of closing
jokes with the audience it doesn't in
any way support the claims made
earlier we never get to answer the
question of why
what distinguishes the people were
attracted from from the people were not
attracted from
would have anything to do with
loneliness
and he again makes claims that are
phrased in such a way
that they don't seem to require
empirical evidence testing or even
clear definitions what if he's right
that people are distracted by seeing one
another
in bikinis in swimwear
what if he's right that it's a problem
what would be a reasonable conclusion to
come to
maybe at the university library
people should not be allowed to wear
bikinis
maybe there should be a dress code at
the library
is that his point or is he actually
saying
women should not be allowed to wear
bikinis
at the beach and
was this the point of his video was all
of the other joking all the other
philosophizing about bdsm
and how to improve your marriage by
staying in a hotel room so you're not
thinking about
doing the taxes and cleaning the dishes
and you can revive
the sex in your relationship such a
stupid hypothesis
and you know never pausing to examine
the opposite
claim the claim that no if you really
love someone if you're
really attracted to someone you'll still
want to have sex them when you do the
dishes together
you'll still want to have sex with them
when you do your taxes together
whether you're in a room closet or in
the bathroom
you don't need to rent a fancy hotel
room that won't increase or decrease
your sex drive
because you actually find yourself each
other attractive you're actually
in love you actually have great sex and
maybe your sexual relationship could
even thrive or
do better based on the fact that you
face and overcome
meaningful challenges together in your
life whether those have to do with doing
the taxes or all the other
raising children your careers studying
things at school
maybe you know dealing with adversity
and sharing ambitions and all the stress
and the distractions
that go into that maybe that's a
powerfully positive thing
for human sexual relationships as
opposed to this notion that sex is
something you do on vacation in a hotel
room
because when you're at home doing dishes
together and worrying about the taxes
you hate each other and find each other
unattractive like maybe that's a
really flawed world view that leads to
really terrible advice
bad implications no no no no don't think
about that the final conclusion of this
lecture
inexplicably is the suggestion that
orthodox muslims are kind of sort of
right
to some extent that's never pinned down
that actually seeing women in bikinis at
the beach
is uh just an abominable distraction
from your important inner life your
inner life that's
so important to you that you can't
ignore
the sight of beautiful women
ultimately when looking at the
philosophy of alain de bhutan
all we're looking at are his attempts to
take his fantasies
and put them forward in the world as if
they were
self-evident scientific facts talk boss
featuring words that kill
my slang is editorial explicit material
briefcase show
lava stereo flow filming donna realty
set the black people free is this cute
right now should i just take this off
[Music]
it's so yellow